exercise calculate season using the
switch structure
create an exercise to put into practice
the switch statement at the end we
should observe the following so we will
create a new project called calculate
MonthSwitch so click on file new project
select Java Java application and click
on next the project name is calculate
SeasonSwitch and the project location is
less04 and click on finish create a
new class called CalculateSeasonSwitchTests so the name of the class is
calculate season switch tests and the
package name is test click on finish
modify the code CalculateSeasonSwitchTest the package name is test the class
name is CalculationSeasonIfTest we create a
main method to execute our application
the execute our class we define a variable
called month in this case the initial
value is equal to 11 and this variable
represents the month of the year we
define a variable called season and
instead of using the if-else statement
we will be using the switch statement so
we pass as a parameter the month in the
switch statement and we will check the
value in every case so if the case is
equal to 1, 2 or 12 the season is equal
to winter and we add a break to finish
these cases after that we can add the
following cases the case 3 4 and 5 in
these cases the season is equal to spring
and we can add a break to finish these
cases if we don't add a break because it
is optional the flow of the switch
statement will continue executing the
next cases sometimes this logic is
necessary but most of the
cases we need to add a break to finish
every case once it's executed. We add the
following cases case 6 7 and 8
in this cases the season is equal to
summer and we add a break. case 9 case
10 and case 11 the season is equal to
autumn and we add a break. And the default
case the season is equal to Incorrect
Month. We close the switch and add to the
log the season for the month is equal to
the season that we have selected we
close the main method and we close the
class
and because the month in this case is
equal to 11 the season will be equal to
autumn so we will execute the project to
check this result so execute the project
right click on the class and run file
and the result is the season for the
month 1 is equal to winter but if the
value is equal to 11 the season is equal
to Autumn. With this exercise we have put
into practice the handling of the switch
structure these are the control
sentences that we will be using when
working with Java